---
layout: post
title:  "A Promise"
date:   2018-08-22 20:29:30 +0530
categories: general
---

Whenever I ever find someone who is more skilled than me at doing something, I feel sick. I feel angry at my own incompetence, my inability to be as good as they are. Then just to feel good about myself, I start looking for their shortcomings, or things I can do that they can't.

I hate it when I act this way. 

All I have ever done my entire life is compare myself with others. Whenever I look at someone, they become the benchmark by which I judge myself. This does not motivate me. It just drives me to do things I wouldn't normally do, to at least match the fictitious benchmark I have created for myself.

All of this just creates an endless cycle of me hating myself until I eventually end up breaking down. Mark Manson, author of the critically acclaimed book: 'The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F*ck', has a name for this endless cycle. He calls it 'The Feedback Loop From Hell'. He says the only way to break out of this loop is to stop caring. He does not ask us to ignore our problems, but acknowledge them by not caring about them. So that's what I've decided to do.

I will not compare myself to others anymore. I will become the best version of myself. That is my promise.

Some months ago I had tried to create a habit of learning something new - no matter how insignificant - every day. And then write about it on my blog. Unfortunately, this little experiment of mine had failed. But it is through failures that we learn, isn't it?

So I have decided once again, to try learning something new everyday, and then post about it over here.

I wrote in my last post that I would be posting everyday. I never said anything about when I will be starting ;). 